# IoT Camera Project
This project is part of the Electronic System Design-I (EE_326) class at Northwestern.<br>
## Authors: Anuj Karnik, Jiabin liu.

## Overview: 
The idea behind this project was to ideate, prototype and build a standalone camera system.<br>
The onboard Wi-Fi module acted as a webserver for a custom website.<br>
The user would log onto the website and trigger the camera from a web browser.<br>
The camera would then capture the image and transmit it over the internet for the user to view in the web browser.

## Hardware, Firmware and other tools:
1. For this project, we used a SAM4S8B microcontroller, an AMW136 Wi-Fi module and an OV2640 camera SoC. <br>
2. A J-Link debugger was used for debugging purposes.<br>
3. The Atmel studio IDE was used for programming and coding was done in C.<br>
4. A custom PCB was designed using Eagle PCB CAD.<br>
5. The enclosure was designed in Catia and was 3D printed.
6. A simple website was created using HTML, CSS and some Javascript.

## File Structure:
├── Eagle Files<br>
├── Webcam_Firmware_Design<br>
│   ├── Debug<br>
│   └── src<br>
└── web_design<br>
    ├── images<br>
    ├── scripts<br>
    └── styles<br>

## Firmware details:
1. The main.c file in the /src folder contains the main function.
2. The ov2640.c and ov2640.h files are the camera library files.
3. The camera.c and camera.h files contain functions that trigger the camera.
4. The wifi.c and wifi.h files contain functions to allow the Wi-Fi chip to recieve the file from the camera, store it in a buffer and transmit it over the web.
5. The rest of the files are autogenerated by the Atmel IDE.

## Further details:
For a few more details and images of the project, click [here](https://sites.google.com/u.northwestern.edu/anuj-karnik/projects/iot-camera?authuser=0).
